{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset161 Calibri;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}{\f4\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 Roboto;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f7\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f8\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red17\green17\blue17;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont7\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9      \fs40 Name - Devendra Gupta\par
      Sec. - AY(1)\par
Roll No. - 20\fs22                                       \fs320  \fs22\par

\pard\ri-810\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx7020\fs40                            \fs44 Assignment - 1\fs320  \fs40\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs22 Q1. Write a C program for calculating the price of a product  after adding the sales tax to its orignal price. where rate of tax and price is inputted by user.\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    float originalPrice, taxRate, finalPrice;\par
\fs24                       \fs22\par
    \par
    printf("Enter the original price of the product: $");\par
    scanf("%f", &originalPrice);\par
\par
   \par
    scanf("%f", &taxRate);\par
\par
    finalPrice = originalPrice + (originalPrice * taxRate / 100.0);\par
\par
  \par
    printf("The final price after adding %.2f%% sales tax is: $%.2f\\n", taxRate, finalPrice);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
Q2.Write a C pogram to calculate the weekly weges of an employee . The pay depends on wages per hour and number of hours worked for more than 30 hours,then he or she gets twice the wages per hour , for every extra hour that he or she  has worked.\par
\par
\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
int main() \{\par
    float hourlyWage, hoursWorked, weeklyWages;\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Enter the hourly wage: $");\par
    scanf("%f", &hourlyWage);\par
\par
    printf("Enter the number of hours worked in a week: ");\par
    scanf("%f", &hoursWorked);\par
\par
    \par
    if (hoursWorked >= 30) \{\par
        weeklyWages = hourlyWage * hoursWorked;\par
    \} else \{\par
        \par
        weeklyWages = hourlyWage * 30;\par
\par
        \par
        float overtimeHours = hoursWorked - 30;\par
        weeklyWages += (hourlyWage * 2.0) * overtimeHours;\par
    \}\par
printf("Weekly wages: $%.2f\\n", weekly weges);\par
return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
 Q3. This program calculates the total cost of the fruits and vegetables purchased and then checks if Mr. X paid enough or if he needs to pay more. If he paid more than the total cost, the program will display the amount to be returned; otherwise, it will display the amount he needs to pay more.\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    \par
    float applePricePerKg = 50.0;\par
    float mangoPricePerKg = 35.0;\par
    float potatoPricePerKg = 10.0;\par
    float tomatoPricePerKg = 15.0;\par
\par
    float totalAmountSpent;\par
    float amountPaid = 500.0;\par
\par
    \par
    float appleCost = 2.0 * applePricePerKg;\par
    float mangoCost = 1.5 * mangoPricePerKg;\par
    float potatoCost = 2.5 * potatoPricePerKg;\par
    float tomatoCost = 1.0 * tomatoPricePerKg;\par
\par
    totalAmountSpent = appleCost + mangoCost + potatoCost + tomatoCost;\par
    \par
    float amountToReturn = amountPaid - totalAmountSpent;\par
\par
    if (amountToReturn >= 0) \{\par
        printf("Mr. X paid enough. The shopkeeper will return Rs. %.2f\\n", amountToReturn);\par
    \} else \{\par
        printf("Mr. X didn't pay enough. He needs to pay Rs. %.2f more.\\n", -amountToReturn);\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
Q4.Write a C program to print your name, date of birth and mobile number in 3 different lines.\par
\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    \par
    char name[] = "Your Name";\par
    char dateOfBirth[] = "Your Date of Birth";\par
    char mobileNumber[] = "Your Mobile Number";\par
\par
    printf("Name: %s\\n", name);\par
\par
    printf("Date of Birth: %s\\n", dateOfBirth);\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Mobile Number: %s\\n", mobileNumber);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\f1\fs24 Q5.Write a program to read an integer, a character and a float value from keyboard and display the same in different lines on the screen.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int integerNum;\par
    char character;\par
    float floatNum;\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Enter an integer: ");\par
    scanf("%d", &integerNum);\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Enter a character: ");\par
    scanf(" %c", &character); \par
\par
    printf("Enter a float value: ");\par
    scanf("%f", &floatNum);\par
\par
    printf("Integer: %d\\n", integerNum);\par
    printf("Character: %c\\n", character);\par
    printf("Float: %.2f\\n", floatNum);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
Q6.Write a program to print the following line ( Assume the total value is contained in a variable named cost)\par
The sales total is : $ 172.53\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    \par
    double cost = 172.53;\par
\par
       printf("The sales total is: $ %.2lf\\n", cost);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
Q7.Raju got 6 and half apples from each of Raghu, Sheenu and Akash. He wants to know how many apples he has in total without adding them. Write a program which could help Raju in doing this.\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int apples_from_each = 6;\par
    float half_apple = 0.5;\par
\par
    \par
    float total_apples = 3 * (apples_from_each + half_apple);\par
    \par
    printf("Raju has a total of %.2f apples.\\n", total_apples);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
\par
Q8.Write a program that prints the floating point value in exponential format correct to two decimal places.\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double floatValue = 1234.56789;\par
\par
   printf("Value in exponential format: %.2e\\n", floatValue);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
.Q9 Write a program to input and print your mobile number (i.e. of 10 digits).\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    char mobileNumber[11]; // 10 digits + 1 for the null terminator\par
\par
   \par
    printf("Enter your 10-digit mobile number: ");\par
    scanf("%s", mobileNumber);\par
\par
    if (strlen(mobileNumber) == 10) \{\par
        \par
        printf("Your mobile number is: %s\\n", mobileNumber);\par
    \} else \{\par
        printf("Invalid input. Please enter a 10-digit mobile number.\\n");\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
Q10.The population of a city is 30000. It increases by 20 % during first year and 30% during the second year. Write a program to find the population after two years? (Ans: 46800)\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int initialPopulation = 30000;\par
    float firstYearGrowthRate = 0.20; // 20% growth\par
    float secondYearGrowthRate = 0.30; // 30% growth\par
\par
       float populationAfterFirstYear = initialPopulation + (initialPopulation * firstYearGrowthRate);\par
\par
    \par
    float populationAfterSecondYear = populationAfterFirstYear + (populationAfterFirstYear * secondYearGrowthRate);\par
    printf("Population after two years: %.0f\\n", populationAfterSecondYear);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
Q11. Write a program to find the ASCII value of a character\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    char character;\par
\par
  \par
    printf("Enter a character: ");\par
    scanf("%c", &character);\par
\par
   \par
    printf("The ASCII value of '%c' is %d\\n", character, character);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
Q12. Write a program to calculate salary of an employee, given his basic pay (entered by user), HRA=15% of the basic pay and TA=20% of the basic pay.\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    float basicPay, hra, ta, salary;\par
\par
   \par
    printf("Enter the basic pay: $");\par
    scanf("%f", &basicPay);\par
\par
    \par
    hra = 0.15 * basicPay; \par
    ta = 0.20 * basicPay;  \par
\par
   \par
    salary = basicPay + hra + ta;\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Basic Pay: $%.2f\\n", basicPay);\par
    printf("HRA: $%.2f\\n", hra);\par
    printf("TA: $%.2f\\n", ta);\par
    printf("Total Salary: $%.2f\\n", salary);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
Q13. Write a program to find  the slope of a line and angle of inclination that passes through two points P and Q with coordinates (xp, yp) and (xq, yq) respectively.\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
#include <math.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double xp, yp, xq, yq;\par
    double slope, angle;\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Enter the coordinates of point P (xp yp): ");\par
    scanf("%lf %lf", &xp, &yp);\par
\par
    printf("Enter the coordinates of point Q (xq yq): ");\par
    scanf("%lf %lf", &xq, &yq);\par
\par
   \par
    if (xp == xq) \{\par
        \par
        printf("The line is vertical, and the slope is undefined.\\n");\par
    \} else \{\par
        slope = (yq - yp) / (xq - xp);\par
\par
        angle = atan(slope);\par
\par
        angle = angle * 180 / M_PI;\par
\par
        printf("Slope of the line: %.2lf\\n", slope);\par
        printf("Angle of inclination (in degrees): %.2lf\\n", angle);\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
Q14. The SPI (Semester Performance Index) is a weighted average of the grade points earned by a student in all the courses he registered for in a semester. If the grade points associated with the letter grades awarded to a student are g1, g2, g3,\'85\'85.gk etc. and the corresponding credits are c1, c2, c3,.\'85..ck, the SPI is  given by:\par
\par
Where, k is the number of courses for which the candidate remains registered for during the semester/ trimester. Write a program in C to calculate SPI for k =5.\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int k = 5; \par
    double gradePoints[] = \{3.5, 4.0, 3.0, 3.7, 3.2\}; \par
    double credits[] = \{4.0, 3.0, 3.0, 2.0, 4.0\}; \par
    \par
    double weightedGradePoints = 0.0;\par
    double totalCredits = 0.0;\par
\par
    for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) \{\par
        weightedGradePoints += gradePoints[i] * credits[i];\par
        totalCredits += credits[i];\par
    \}\par
\par
    if (totalCredits > 0) \{\par
        double spi = weightedGradePoints / totalCredits;\par
        printf("SPI for %d courses is: %.2lf\\n", k, spi);\par
    \} else \{\par
        printf("Error: Total credits cannot be zero.\\n");\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
Q 15. Write a program to calculate the frequency (f) of a given wave with wavelength (\f2\lang1032\'eb) and speed (c), where c=\'eb*f.\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double wavelength, speed, frequency;\par
\par
    printf("Enter the wavelength (in meters): ");\par
    scanf("%lf", &wavelength);\par
\par
    printf("Enter the speed (in meters per second): ");\par
    scanf("%lf", &speed);\par
\par
    frequency = speed / wavelength;\par
\par
    printf("The frequency of the wave is %.2lf hertz (Hz)\\n", frequency);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\f0\lang9\par
\par
Q 16. A car travelling at 30 m/s accelerates steadily at 5 m/s2 for a distance of 70 m. What is the final velocity of the car? [Hint: v2 = u2 + 2as] .\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
#include <math.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double u = 30.0;   \par
    double a = 5.0;    \par
    double s = 70.0;   \par
    double v;         \par
\par
    v = sqrt(u * u + 2.0 * a * s);\par
\par
    printf("The final velocity of the car is %.2lf m/s\\n", v);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
Q 17.A horse accelerates steadily from rest at 4 m/s2 for 3s. (a) What is its final velocity? (b) How far has it travelled? [Hint: (a) v = u + at (b)  s = ut + \'bdat2 ].\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double u = 0.0;   \par
    double a = 4.0;   \par
    double t = 3.0;   \par
    double v;         \par
    double s;       \par
\par
    v = u + (a * t);\par
\par
    s = (u * t) + (0.5 * a * t * t);\par
\par
    printf("The final velocity of the horse is %.2lf m/s\\n", v);\par
    printf("The distance traveled by the horse is %.2lf meters\\n", s);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\f1\fs24 Q 18.\f3  Write a program to find the sum of your four last digit of your university roll number .\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22 #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    \par
    int rollNumber = 12345678;\par
\par
    int lastFourDigits = rollNumber % 10000;\par
\par
    int sum = 0;\par
\par
    while (lastFourDigits > 0) \{\par
        sum += lastFourDigits % 10;\par
        lastFourDigits /= 10;\par
    \}\par
\par
    printf("Sum of the last four digits of your roll number: %d\\n", sum);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
\f3\fs24 Q19. Write a program to initialize your height and weight in cm. and kgs respectively demonstrating compile time initialization and convert them in feets and pounds respectively.  \b Note :- 1 cm = 0.393701inch , 1 Kg = 2.20462\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
 \par
    double heightInCm = 175.0; \par
    double weightInKg = 70.0;  \par
\par
    double cmToInch = 0.393701;\par
    double kgToPound = 2.20462;\par
\par
    double heightInFeet = heightInCm * cmToInch / 12.0;\par
\par
    double weightInPounds = weightInKg * kgToPound;\par
\par
    printf("Height: %.2f cm = %.2f feet\\n", heightInCm, heightInFeet);\par
    printf("Weight: %.2f kg = %.2f pounds\\n", weightInKg, weightInPounds);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\b0\f1 Q 20 . Code the variable declarations for each of following:\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li360\sl240\slmult1\qj A character variable named option.\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}An integer variable sum initialized to 0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 A floating point variable, product, initialized to 1\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    char option;          \par
    int sum = 0;          \par
    float product = 1.0;  \par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\f0\fs22\par
\par
\f1\fs24 Q21. Write a program that reads nine integers. Display these numbers by printing three numbers in a line separated by commas\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int numbers[9]; \par
\par
    printf("Enter nine integers, separated by spaces:\\n");\par
    for (int i = 0; i < 9; i++) \{\par
        scanf("%d", &numbers[i]);\par
    \}\par
\par
    printf("Numbers in groups of three, separated by commas:\\n");\par
    for (int i = 0; i < 9; i++) \{\par
        printf("%d", numbers[i]);\par
        \par
        if ((i + 1) % 3 != 0 && i < 8) \{\par
            printf(", ");\par
        \}\par
        \par
        if ((i + 1) % 3 == 0) \{\par
            printf("\\n");\par
        \}\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
Q22. What are header files and what are its uses in C programming\par
\par
 Ans -  Header files in C programming are files that contain declarations of functions, variables, and macros that can be used in multiple source files (.c files). They provide a way to organize and modularize your code, making it more manageable and maintainable. \f0\fs22\par
To use a header file, you typically include it at the beginning of your C source file using #include like this:\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\f1\fs24 Q23. What will be the output of following program?\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj #include<stdio.h>\par
int main()\par
\{   int num=070;\par
printf(\ldblquote %d\\t%o\\t%x\rdblquote ,num,num,num);\par
\}\par
\f0\fs22\par
\par
 Ans - #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int num = 070;\par
    printf("%d\\t%o\\t%x", num, num, num);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
\par
Output -\par
56    70    38\par
\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\f1\fs24 Q 24. What will be the output of following program?\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj #include <stdio.h>\par

\pard\fi720\sl240\slmult1\qj void main() \par
\{\par
int x = printf("GLA UNIVERSITY");\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj    \tab printf("%d", x);\par
  \tab  \}\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\f0\fs22\par
 Ans - GLA UNIVERSITY14\par
It first prints "GLA UNIVERSITY" and then 14 immediately after.\par
\par
\par
Q25. What are library functions? List any four library functions.\par
\par
\par
Here are four commonly used library functions in C:\par
\par
1.printf():\par
\par
Purpose: Used for formatted output to the standard output (typically the console).\par
Header: <stdio.h>\par
Example:\par
\par
printf("Hello, World!\\n");\par
\par
2.scanf():\par
\par
Purpose: Used for formatted input from the standard input (typically the keyboard).\par
Header: <stdio.h>\par
Example:\par
\par
int num;\par
scanf("%d", &num);\par
\par
3.strlen():\par
\par
Purpose: Calculates the length of a null-terminated string (number of characters excluding the null terminator).\par
Header: <string.h>\par
Example:\par
\par
#include <string.h>\par
char str[] = "Hello";\par
int length = strlen(str);\par
\par
4.rand() and srand():\par
\par
rand() Purpose: Generates a random integer.\par
srand() Purpose: Seeds the random number generator.\par
Header: <stdlib.h>\par
Example:\par
\par
#include <stdlib.h>\par
int randomNum;\par
srand(time(NULL)); \par
randomNum = rand(); \par
\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\f1\fs24 Q26. What will be the output of following program?\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj #include <stdio.h>\par

\pard\fi720\sl240\slmult1\qj void main() \par
\{\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj  \tab   int x = printf("C is placement oriented Language") \f4\endash\f1  printf(\ldblquote Hi\rdblquote );\par
 \tab   printf("%d %o %x", x,x,x);\par
 \tab\}\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\f0\fs22\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
int main() \par
\{\par
  \f1\fs24\tab   int x = printf("C is placement oriented Language") \f4\endash\f1  printf(\ldblquote Hi\rdblquote );\f0\fs22   \par
    printf("%d %o %x", x, x, x);\par
\}\par
\par
output -\par
31 37 1F\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\f1\fs24 Q27. What is the meaning of following statement?    printf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,scanf(\ldblquote %d%d\rdblquote ,&a,&b));\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\f0\fs22\par
\par
Ans - scanf("%d%d", &a, &b) is a call to the scanf function, which is used for reading input from the standard input (usually the keyboard) and storing it in the variables a and b. It expects two integer values to be entered, separated by whitespace.\par
\par
Here's a common usage of scanf return value for input error checking:\par
\par
\par
if (scanf("%d%d", &a, &b) == 2) \{\par
    \par
    printf("Values read: a = %d, b = %d\\n", a, b);\par
\} else \{\par
    \par
    printf("Error: Input should consist of two integers.\\n");\par
\}\par
\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\f1\fs24 Q28. What will be the output of following program?\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj #include <stdio.h> \par
void main() \par

\pard\fi720\sl240\slmult1\qj\{ \par
  printf(" \\"C %% FOR %% PLACEMENT\\""); \par
\}\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\f0\fs22\par
\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
void main() \{\par
    printf(" \\"C %% FOR %% PLACEMENT\\"");\par
\}\par
\par
output -\par
 "C % FOR % PLACEMENT"\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\f1\fs24 Q29. Suppose distance between GLA University and Delhi is m km (to be entered by user), by BUS you can reach Delhi in 4 hours. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to calculate speed of bus.\par
Answer: \par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    float distance;\par
    float time = 4.0;\par
    float speed;\par
\par
    printf("Enter the distance between GLA University and Delhi in kilometers: ");\par
    scanf("%f", &distance);\par
\par
    speed = distance / time;\par
\par
    printf("The speed of the bus is %.2f km/h.\\n", speed);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
Q30. In an exam Satyam got 50 marks, Suman got 70 marks and Shyam got 80 marks, Write a \lquote C\rquote  program to find average marks of these three participants.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer: \cf1\f5 Certainly! Here\rquote s a \lquote C\rquote  program that calculates the average marks of Satyam, Suman, and Shyam:\par

\pard\sa60\sl240\slmult1\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\f6\fs20 #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int satyam_marks = 50;\par
    int suman_marks = 70;\par
    int shyam_marks = 80;\par
    float average;\par
\par
    average = (satyam_marks + suman_marks + shyam_marks) / 3.0;\par
\par
    printf("The average marks of Satyam, Suman, and Shyam is %.2f.\\n", average);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\f5\fs24 Copy\par
In this program, we first declare three variables\~\f6\fs20 satyam_marks\f5\fs24 ,\~\f6\fs20 suman_marks\f5\fs24 , and\~\f6\fs20 shyam_marks\f5\fs24\~to store the marks obtained by Satyam, Suman, and Shyam, respectively. We also declare a variable\~\f6\fs20 average\f5\fs24\~to store the calculated average.\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 We then calculate the average marks by adding the marks of the three participants and dividing the sum by 3.0 to get a floating-point result.\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par
Q31. One day, Mohan called Saurav and Sajal and gave some money to them, later he realized that money that was given to Saurav should be given to Sajal and vice-versa. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to help Mohan so that he can rectify his mistake.\par
\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer:\cf1\f5  To rectify the mistake made by Mohan, we can use a temporary variable to swap the values of the two variables. Here\rquote s a C program that does this:\par

\pard\sa60\sl240\slmult1\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\f6\fs20 #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int saurav_money = 100;\par
    int sajal_money = 200;\par
    int temp;\par
\par
    printf("Before swapping:\\n");\par
    printf("Saurav has %d rupees.\\n", saurav_money);\par
    printf("Sajal has %d rupees.\\n", sajal_money);\par
\par
    // Swap the values of the two variables\par
    temp = saurav_money;\par
    saurav_money = sajal_money;\par
    sajal_money = temp;\par
\par
    printf("\\nAfter swapping:\\n");\par
    printf("Saurav has %d rupees.\\n", saurav_money);\par
    printf("Sajal has %d rupees.\\n", sajal_money);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\f5\fs24 Copy\par
In this program, we first declare two variables\~\f6\fs20 saurav_money\f5\fs24\~and\~\f6\fs20 sajal_money\f5\fs24\~to store the amount of money given to Saurav and Sajal, respectively. We also declare a temporary variable\~\f6\fs20 temp\f5\fs24 .\par
We then print out the initial values of the two variables using\~\f6\fs20 printf()\f5\fs24 .\par
To swap the values of the two variables, we first assign the value of\~\f6\fs20 saurav_money\f5\fs24\~to\~\f6\fs20 temp\f5\fs24 . We then assign the value of\~\f6\fs20 sajal_money\f5\fs24\~to\~\f6\fs20 saurav_money\f5\fs24 , and finally assign the value of\~\f6\fs20 temp\f5\fs24\~to\~\f6\fs20 sajal_money\f5\fs24 . This effectively swaps the values of the two variables.\par
Finally, we print out the new values of the two variables using\~\f6\fs20 printf()\f5\fs24 .\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 I hope this helps Mohan rectify his mistake!\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par
Q32. One day when I was going for a lunch, suddenly rain started, I was very hungry so started running with speed of 4km/h and it took 3 min to reach mess. Help me to develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to calculate distance travelled by me.\line\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer:\par
 \cf1\f5 To calculate the distance travelled by you, we can use the formula:\par

\pard\sa60\sl240\slmult1\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\f6\fs20 distance = speed x time\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\f5\fs24 Copy\par
where\~\f6\fs20 speed\f5\fs24\~is your running speed in km/h and\~\f6\fs20 time\f5\fs24\~is the time taken to reach the mess in hours.\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 Given that you ran at a speed of 4 km/h and it took you 3 minutes (0.05 hours) to reach the mess, we can calculate the distance travelled as:\par

\pard\sa60\sl240\slmult1\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\f6\fs20 distance = 4 x 0.05\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\f5\fs24 Copy\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 Therefore, the distance travelled by you is\~\b 0.2 km\b0 .\par
Here\rquote s a C program that calculates the distance travelled:\par

\pard\sa60\sl240\slmult1\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\f6\fs20 #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    float speed = 4; // km/h\par
    float time = 0.05; // hours\par
    float distance = speed * time;\par
\par
    printf("The distance travelled by you is %.2f km.", distance);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\fs24\par
Q33. Can two or more escape sequences such as \\n and \\t be combined in a single line of program code?\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer: \cf1\f5 Yes, it is possible to combine two or more escape sequences such as\~\f6\fs20\\n\f5\fs24\~and\~\f6\fs20\\t\f5\fs24\~in a single line of program code in C. For example, the following code will print \ldblquote Hello\rdblquote  on one line, followed by a tab character, and then \ldblquote World\rdblquote  on the next line:\par

\pard\sa60\sl240\slmult1\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\f6\fs20 printf("Hello\\tWorld\\n");\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\f5\fs24 Copy\par
In this example, the\~\f6\fs20\\t\f5\fs24\~escape sequence inserts a tab character between \ldblquote Hello\rdblquote  and \ldblquote World\rdblquote , and the\~\f6\fs20\\n\f5\fs24\~escape sequence moves the cursor to the next line.\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 Therefore, it is possible to combine multiple escape sequences in a single line of program code in C.\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par
\par
Q34. What are comments and how do you insert it in a C program?\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer: \cf1\f5 In C programming,\~\b comments\b0\~are used to add notes or explanations to the code. They are ignored by the compiler and do not affect the execution of the program.\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 There are two types of comments in C:\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\tx720\b Single-line comments\b0 : These comments start with\~\f6\fs20 //\f5\fs24\~and continue until the end of the line. They are used to add a short note or explanation to a single line of code.\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\b Multi-line comments\b0 : These comments start with\~\f6\fs20 /*\f5\fs24\~and end with\~\f6\fs20 */\f5\fs24 . They can span multiple lines and are used to add longer notes or explanations to a block of code.\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 Here are some examples of how to use comments in C:\par

\pard\sa60\sl240\slmult1\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\f6\fs20 // This is a single-line comment\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    /* This is a multi-line comment\par
       that spans multiple lines */\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\f5\fs24 Copy\par
To insert a comment in a C program, simply add\~\f6\fs20 //\f5\fs24\~or\~\f6\fs20 /* ... */\f5\fs24\~before the text you want to comment.\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1 B\par
\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Q35. What is wrong in this statement?  scanf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,number);\line Answer: \cf1\f5 The statement\~\f6\fs20 scanf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,number);\f5\fs24\~is incorrect because the\~\f6\fs20 scanf()\f5\fs24\~function requires the address of the variable where the input value will be stored, not the variable itself.\par
To fix this error, we need to pass the address of the variable\~\f6\fs20 number\f5\fs24\~to\~\f6\fs20 scanf()\f5\fs24\~using the\~\f6\fs20 &\f5\fs24\~operator. Here\rquote s the corrected statement:\par

\pard\sa60\sl240\slmult1\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\f6\fs20 scanf("%d", &number);\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\f5\fs24 Copy\par
Therefore, the correct statement should be\~\f6\fs20 scanf("%d", &number);\f5\fs24 .\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q36. What will be the output?\par
\par

\pard\fi1170\sl240\slmult1\qj #include <stdio.h>\par

\pard\fi1170\li360\sl240\slmult1\qj int main()\par

\pard\fi1170\sl240\slmult1\qj\{\par
    if (sizeof(int) > -1)\par
        printf("Yes");\par
    else\par
        printf("No");\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer: \cf1\f5 The output of the program will be\~\b Yes\b0 .\par
In C, the\~\f6\fs20 sizeof\f5\fs24\~operator returns the size of a data type in bytes.\~{\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34151309/why-is-sizeofint-1-false"}}{\fldrslt{The result of\~}}}}{\cf2\ul\f6\fs20{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34151309/why-is-sizeofint-1-false"}}{\fldrslt{sizeof}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34151309/why-is-sizeofint-1-false"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul\~is an unsigned integer of type\~}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f6\fs20{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34151309/why-is-sizeofint-1-false"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul size_t}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34151309/why-is-sizeofint-1-false"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul , which is always non-negative\~}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34151309/why-is-sizeofint-1-false"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 1}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 .\par
In the given program, the expression\~\f6\fs20 sizeof(int) > -1\f5\fs24\~is equivalent to\~\f6\fs20 sizeof(int) > (unsigned int)-1\f5\fs24 . Since\~\f6\fs20 -1\f5\fs24\~is converted to an unsigned integer before the comparison, it becomes a very large number that is greater than the size of an integer on most implementations. Therefore, the condition in the\~\f6\fs20 if\f5\fs24\~statement is true, and the program prints \ldblquote Yes\rdblquote  to the console.\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 Therefore, the output of the program will be\~\b Yes\b0 .\par

\pard\fi1170\sl240\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q37. Point out which of the following variable names are invalid: \par

\pard\li360\sl240\slmult1\qj gross-salary INTEREST , salary of emp , avg. , thereisbookinmysoup\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer: \cf1\f5 Out of the given variable names,\~\b gross-salary\b0\~and\~\b thereisbookinmysoup\b0\~are invalid because they contain hyphens and spaces, respectively. Variable names in C must not contain hyphens or spaces. Instead, we can use underscores to separate words in a variable name.\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 The other two variable names,\~\b salary of emp\b0\~and\~\b avg.\b0 , are also invalid. Variable names in C must not contain spaces or periods. Instead, we can use underscores to separate words in a variable name.\par
Therefore, the correct answer is:\~\b gross-salary\b0\~and\~\b thereisbookinmysoup\b0 .\par

\pard\li360\sl240\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par
\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q38. Tom works at an aquarium shop on Saturdays. One Saturday, when Tom gets to work, he is asked to clean a 175-gallon reef tank. His first job is to drain the tank. He puts a hose into the tank and starts a siphon. Tom wonders if the tank will finish draining before he leaves work. He measures the amount of water that is draining out and finds that 12.5 gallons drain out in 30 minutes. So, he figures that the rate is 25 gallons per hour. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to help Tom to calculate time required to completely clean tank.\par
\par
Answer: \par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    float total_amount_of_water = 175;\par
    float rate_of_drainage = 25;\par
    float time = total_amount_of_water / rate_of_drainage;\par
\par
    printf("The time required to completely clean the tank is approximately %.2f hours.", time);\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q39. The percent y (in decimal form) of battery power remaining x hours after you turn on a laptop computer is y = \f7\u8722?\f1 0.2 x + 1. Develop a \lquote C\rquote  program to calculate after how many hours the battery power is at 75%?\par
\lang9\par
Answer:\par
 #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    float x = (1 - 0.75) / (-0.2);\par
    printf("The battery power will be at 75%% after %.2f hours.", x);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
Q40.Which of the following is used to convert the high level language in machine language in a single go?\par
a. Compiler\tab\tab b.Interpreter \par
c. Linker\tab\tab d.Assembler \par
\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer: {\cf2\ul\f5{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/guides/zmthsrd/revision/1"}}{\fldrslt{The tool used to convert high-level language into machine language in a single go is a\~}}}}{\cf2\b\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/guides/zmthsrd/revision/1"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\ul compiler}}}}{\cf0\ulnone\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/guides/zmthsrd/revision/1"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul\~}}}}{\cf0\ulnone\super\b0\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/guides/zmthsrd/revision/1"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 1}}}}{\cf0\ulnone\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/language-processors-assembler-compiler-and-interpreter/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 2}}}}{\cf0\ulnone\nosupersub\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.thegeeksclan.com/program-translator-tools/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 3}}}}\cf1\ulnone\nosupersub\f5\fs24 .\par
A\~\b compiler\b0\~is a program that takes the entire source code of a program written in a high-level language and translates it into machine code all at once.\~{\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/guides/zmthsrd/revision/1"}}{\fldrslt{The resulting machine code can be executed directly on the target computer without any further processing\~}}}}{\cf2\ul\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/guides/zmthsrd/revision/1"}}{\fldrslt{1}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/language-processors-assembler-compiler-and-interpreter/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 2}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\nosupersub\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.thegeeksclan.com/program-translator-tools/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 3}}}}\cf1\ulnone\nosupersub\f5\fs24 .\par
On the other hand, an\~\b interpreter\b0\~translates and executes the source code of a program line by line, without generating an executable file.\~{\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19506164/what-is-the-process-of-translating-high-level-language-into-machine-language"}}{\fldrslt{This means that the source code must be interpreted every time the program is run, which can make it slower than compiled code\~}}}}{\cf2\ul\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19506164/what-is-the-process-of-translating-high-level-language-into-machine-language"}}{\fldrslt{4}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 .\par
A\~\b linker\b0\~is a program that combines object files generated by a compiler into a single executable file.\~{\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://edurev.in/question/1834941/Which-among-these-language-translators-that-can-convert-high-level-language-program-into-machine-lan"}}{\fldrslt{It resolves references between different object files and libraries, and generates an executable file that can be run on the target computer\~}}}}{\cf2\ul\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://edurev.in/question/1834941/Which-among-these-language-translators-that-can-convert-high-level-language-program-into-machine-lan"}}{\fldrslt{5}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 .\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 An\~\b assembler\b0\~is a program that translates assembly language into machine code. Assembly language is a low-level programming language that is easier to read and write than machine code, but still requires detailed knowledge of the underlying hardware architecture .\par
Therefore, the correct answer is\~\b a. Compiler\b0 .\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par
\par
Q 41. What is the format specifier for an Octal Number?\par
a.%0\tab  \tab b.%d \par
c. %o\tab\tab d. %e\par
\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer: \cf1\f5 The format specifier for an octal number is\~\b %o\b0 .\par
{\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/octal-numbers-c/"}}{\fldrslt{In C, the\~}}}}{\cf2\ul\f6\fs20{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/octal-numbers-c/"}}{\fldrslt{%o}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/octal-numbers-c/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul\~format specifier is used to print an integer in octal (base 8) format\~}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/octal-numbers-c/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 1}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.includehelp.com/c/octal-literals.aspx"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 2}}}}\cf1\ulnone\nosupersub\f5\fs24 . To print an integer in octal format, we can use the following syntax:\par

\pard\sa60\sl240\slmult1\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\f6\fs20 printf("%o", num);\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\f5\fs24 Copy\par
where\~\f6\fs20 num\f5\fs24\~is the integer to be printed in octal format.\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 Therefore, the correct answer is\~\b c. %o\b0 .\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par
\par
Q 42. Which format specifier is used to print the exponent value upto 2 decimal places.\par
a. %e\tab b.%.2f \tab c. %f\tab\tab d.%.2e \par
\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer: \cf1\f5 The format specifier used to print the exponent value up to 2 decimal places is\~\b d.%.2e\b0 .\par
{\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/format-specifiers-in-c/"}}{\fldrslt{The\~}}}}{\cf2\ul\f6\fs20{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/format-specifiers-in-c/"}}{\fldrslt{%e}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/format-specifiers-in-c/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul\~format specifier is used to print a floating-point number in scientific notation with an exponent\~}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/format-specifiers-in-c/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 1}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 .\~{\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2538787/how-to-print-a-float-with-2-decimal-places-in-java"}}{\fldrslt{To print the exponent value up to 2 decimal places, we can use the precision specifier\~}}}}{\cf2\ul\f6\fs20{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2538787/how-to-print-a-float-with-2-decimal-places-in-java"}}{\fldrslt{.2}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2538787/how-to-print-a-float-with-2-decimal-places-in-java"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul\~along with\~}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f6\fs20{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2538787/how-to-print-a-float-with-2-decimal-places-in-java"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul %e}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2538787/how-to-print-a-float-with-2-decimal-places-in-java"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul , like this:\~}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f6\fs20{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2538787/how-to-print-a-float-with-2-decimal-places-in-java"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul %.2e}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2538787/how-to-print-a-float-with-2-decimal-places-in-java"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul\~}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2538787/how-to-print-a-float-with-2-decimal-places-in-java"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 2}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 .\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 Therefore, the correct answer is\~\b d.%.2e\b0 .\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par
\par
Q 43. Which of the following is not a basic data type?\par
a. char\par
b. array\par
c. float\tab\par
d. int\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer: {\cf2\ul\f5{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://press.rebus.community/programmingfundamentals/chapter/data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{A\~}}}}{\cf2\b\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://press.rebus.community/programmingfundamentals/chapter/data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\ul data type}}}}{\cf0\ulnone\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://press.rebus.community/programmingfundamentals/chapter/data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul\~is a classification of data that tells the compiler or interpreter how the programmer intends to use the data\~}}}}{\cf0\ulnone\super\b0\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://press.rebus.community/programmingfundamentals/chapter/data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 1}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 .\par
Out of the given options,\~\b array\b0\~is not a basic data type.\~{\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.toppr.com/guides/computer-science/introduction-to-c-/data-types-variables-and-constants/concept-of-data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{An\~}}}}{\cf2\b\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.toppr.com/guides/computer-science/introduction-to-c-/data-types-variables-and-constants/concept-of-data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\ul array}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.toppr.com/guides/computer-science/introduction-to-c-/data-types-variables-and-constants/concept-of-data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul\~is a collection of elements of the same type, such as a collection of integers or characters\~}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\b0\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.toppr.com/guides/computer-science/introduction-to-c-/data-types-variables-and-constants/concept-of-data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 2}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 . It is a compound data type that can be built using basic data types.\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 On the other hand,\~\b char\b0 ,\~\b float\b0 , and\~\b int\b0\~are all examples of basic data types.\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1\tx720 {\cf2\b{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.toppr.com/guides/computer-science/introduction-to-c-/data-types-variables-and-constants/concept-of-data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\ul char}}}}{\cf2\ul\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.toppr.com/guides/computer-science/introduction-to-c-/data-types-variables-and-constants/concept-of-data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\~represents individual characters\~}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\b0\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.toppr.com/guides/computer-science/introduction-to-c-/data-types-variables-and-constants/concept-of-data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 2}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 .\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\cf2\b{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.toppr.com/guides/computer-science/introduction-to-c-/data-types-variables-and-constants/concept-of-data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\ul float}}}}{\cf2\ul\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.toppr.com/guides/computer-science/introduction-to-c-/data-types-variables-and-constants/concept-of-data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\~represents fractional numbers\~}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\b0\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.toppr.com/guides/computer-science/introduction-to-c-/data-types-variables-and-constants/concept-of-data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 2}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 .\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\cf2\b{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://press.rebus.community/programmingfundamentals/chapter/data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\ul int}}}}{\cf2\ul\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://press.rebus.community/programmingfundamentals/chapter/data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\~represents whole numbers\~}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\b0\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.toppr.com/guides/computer-science/introduction-to-c-/data-types-variables-and-constants/concept-of-data-types/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 2}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 .\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 Therefore, the correct answer is\~\b b. array\b0 .\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par
\par
Q 44. What is the output of following code?\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
void main()\par
\{\par
  int x=0;\par
  x= printf("\\"hello\\b\\"");\par
  printf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,x);\par
\}\par
a. hello7     b. \ldblquote hello\rdblquote 7\tab  c. \ldblquote hell\rdblquote 8      d. hell8\par
\par
\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer: \cf1\f5 The output of the program will be\~\b hello7\b0 .\par
The first\~\f6\fs20 printf()\f5\fs24\~statement in the program prints the string\~\f6\fs20 "hello"\f5\fs24\~to the console and then moves the cursor back one position using the backspace escape sequence\~\f6\fs20\\b\f5\fs24 . This means that the letter\~\f6\fs20 o\f5\fs24\~is overwritten by the double quote\~\f6\fs20 "\f5\fs24 , resulting in the output\~\f6\fs20 hell"\f5\fs24 . However, since we are using double quotes to enclose the string, we need to escape them using a backslash\~\f6\fs20\\\f5\fs24 . Therefore, the correct string to print is\~\f6\fs20 "hell\\""\f5\fs24 .\par
The\~\f6\fs20 printf()\f5\fs24\~function returns the number of characters printed, which is\~\f6\fs20 7\f5\fs24\~in this case. This value is then assigned to the variable\~\f6\fs20 x\f5\fs24 .\par
The second\~\f6\fs20 printf()\f5\fs24\~statement in the program prints the value of\~\f6\fs20 x\f5\fs24\~to the console, which is\~\f6\fs20 7\f5\fs24 .\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 Therefore, the complete output of the program is\~\b hello7\b0 .\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par
    \par
Q 45.  What is the output of following code?\par
#include<stdio.h>\par
void main()\par
\{\par
  int b,c=5 ;\par
  int(\ldblquote %d , %d\rdblquote , b,c);\par
\}\par
a. 5, 5\tab\tab\tab   b. 5, 5.000000\tab\par
c. Garbage, 5.000000       d. Garbage, 5\par
\par
Answer:\par
 #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int b, c = 5;\par
    printf("%d, %d", b, c);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
\par
Q46. Which of the following is an identifier?\par
a. &fact      b. Basic_pay    c. enum         d. 1sum \par
\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1 Answer: \cf1\f5 An\~\b identifier\b0\~is a name given to entities such as variables, functions, structures, etc.\~{\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.programiz.com/c-programming/c-keywords-identifier"}}{\fldrslt{that are created to give a unique name to an entity to identify it during the execution of the program\~}}}}{\cf2\ul\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.programiz.com/c-programming/c-keywords-identifier"}}{\fldrslt{1}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identifier_%28computer_languages%29"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 2}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\nosupersub\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.thoughtco.com/definition-of-identifier-958092"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 3}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\nosupersub\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.techopedia.com/definition/1810/identifier-c"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 4}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 .\par
Out of the given options,\~\b Basic_pay\b0\~and\~\b enum\b0\~are identifiers because they follow the rules for naming identifiers. Identifiers can have letters (both uppercase and lowercase letters), digits, and underscores. The first letter of an identifier should be either a letter or an underscore. You cannot use keywords like\~\f6\fs20 int\f5\fs24 ,\~\f6\fs20 while\f5\fs24 , etc.\~{\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.programiz.com/c-programming/c-keywords-identifier"}}{\fldrslt{as identifiers\~}}}}{\cf2\ul\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.programiz.com/c-programming/c-keywords-identifier"}}{\fldrslt{1}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\super\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identifier_%28computer_languages%29"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 2}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\nosupersub\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.thoughtco.com/definition-of-identifier-958092"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 3}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\nosupersub\f5\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.techopedia.com/definition/1810/identifier-c"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 4}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f5\fs24 .\par

\pard\sb180\sl240\slmult1 Therefore, the correct options are\~\b b. Basic_pay\b0\~and\~\b c. enum\b0 .\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\cf0\f1\par
\par
Q 47. What is the output of the following program?\par
#include<stdio.h>   char x, a=\rquote c\rquote ;\par
   x=printf("%c",a);\par
\par
void main()\par
\{\par
   printf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,x);\par
\}\par
a. c1\tab\tab b. cgarbage\par
c. 1\tab\tab c. c\par
\par
answer: \cf1\f5 The output of the program will be\~\b c1\b0 .\cf0\f1\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\par
Q48. Perform the following conversion from Decimal to other number as directed-\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj\tx720 (365.55)\sub 10\nosupersub  =  (?)\sub 2\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(453.65)\sub 10\nosupersub  =  (?)\sub 8\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(5164.12)\sub 10\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 16\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(23.65)\sub 10\nosupersub  =  (?)\sub 5\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(772)\sub 10\nosupersub  =       (?)\sub 7\nosupersub\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\tx720\par
\sub Ans - #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
void decimalToBinary(double num) \{\par
    int intPart = (int)num;\par
    double decimalPart = num - intPart;\par
\par
    int binaryInt[32]; \par
    int i = 0;\par
    while (intPart > 0) \{\par
        binaryInt[i] = intPart % 2;\par
        intPart /= 2;\par
        i++;\par
    \}\par
    \par
    printf("Integer part in binary: ");\par
    for (int j = i - 1; j >= 0; j--) \{\par
        printf("%d", binaryInt[j]);\par
    \}\par
    printf(".");\par
    while (decimalPart != 0.0) \{\par
        decimalPart *= 2;\par
        int bit = (int)decimalPart;\par
        decimalPart -= bit;\par
        printf("%d", bit);\par
    \}\par
    printf("\\n");\par
\}\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double num = 365.55;\par
    decimalToBinary(num);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
Decimal to Octal (Base-8):\par
(453.65)10 = (?)8\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
void decimalToOctal(double num) \{\par
    int intPart = (int)num;\par
    double decimalPart = num - intPart;\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Integer part in octal: %o\\n", intPart);\par
\par
    \par
    printf("Decimal part in octal: 0.");\par
    for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) \{ // Display up to 5 digits in the fractional part\par
        decimalPart *= 8;\par
        int digit = (int)decimalPart;\par
        decimalPart -= digit;\par
        printf("%d", digit);\par
    \}\par
    printf("\\n");\par
\}\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double num = 453.65;\par
    decimalToOctal(num);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
Decimal to Hexadecimal (Base-16):\par
(5164.12)10 = (?)16\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
void decimalToHexadecimal(double num) \{\par
    int intPart = (int)num;\par
    double decimalPart = num - intPart;\par
\par
    printf("Integer part in hexadecimal: %X\\n", intPart);\par
\par
    printf("Decimal part in hexadecimal: 0.");\par
    for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) \{ // Display up to 5 digits in the fractional part\par
        decimalPart *= 16;\par
        int digit = (int)decimalPart;\par
        decimalPart -= digit;\par
        printf("%X", digit);\par
    \}\par
    printf("\\n");\par
\}\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double num = 5164.12;\par
    decimalToHexadecimal(num);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
Decimal to Base-5:\par
(23.65)10 = (?)5\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
void decimalToBase5(double num) \{\par
    int intPart = (int)num;\par
    double decimalPart = num - intPart;\par
\par
    printf("Integer part in base-5: ");\par
    while (intPart > 0) \{\par
        int digit = intPart % 5;\par
        printf("%d", digit);\par
        intPart /= 5;\par
    \}\par
    printf("\\n");\par
\par
    printf("Decimal part in base-5: 0.");\par
    for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) \{ // Display up to 5 digits in the fractional part\par
        decimalPart *= 5;\par
        int digit = (int)decimalPart;\par
        decimalPart -= digit;\par
        printf("%d", digit);\par
    \}\par
    printf("\\n");\par
\}\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    double num = 23.65;\par
    decimalToBase5(num);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
Decimal to Base-7:\par
(772)10 = (?)7\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
void decimalToBase7(int num) \{\par
    \par
    printf("Integer part in base-7: ");\par
    while (num > 0) \{\par
        int digit = num % 7;\par
        printf("%d", digit);\par
        num /= 7;\par
    \}\par
    printf("\\n");\par
\}\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    int num = 772;\par
    decimalToBase7(num);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\nosupersub Q49. Covert the following numbers to decimal number system-\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj\tx720 (325.54)\sub 6\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(1001010110101.1110101)\sub 2\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(742.72)\sub 8\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(AC94.C5)\sub 16\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 10\nosupersub\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\tx720\par
\sub\par
\fs40  Ans -\fs24 #include <stdio.h>\par
#include <math.h>\par
\par
int convertBase6ToDecimal(const char *base6) \{\par
    int decimal = 0;\par
    int length = strlen(base6);\par
\par
    for (int i = 0; i < length; i++) \{\par
        char digit = base6[i];\par
        int value = digit - '0'; // Convert character to integer\par
\par
        \par
        if (value < 0 || value >= 6) \{\par
            printf("Invalid base-6 digit: %c\\n", digit);\par
            return -1; \par
        \}\par
\par
        decimal += value * pow(6, length - i - 1);\par
    \}\par
\par
    return decimal;\par
\}\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    const char *base6 = "325.54";\par
    int decimalValue = convertBase6ToDecimal(base6);\par
    \par
    if (decimalValue != -1) \{\par
        printf("(%s)6 = (%d)10\\n", base6, decimalValue);\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
Convert from Binary (Base-2) to Decimal:\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
#include <math.h>\par
\par
int convertBinaryToDecimal(const char *binary) \{\par
    int decimal = 0;\par
    int length = strlen(binary);\par
\par
    for (int i = 0; i < length; i++) \{\par
        char digit = binary[i];\par
        int value = digit - '0'; \par
\par
        // Ensure the digit is valid in binary\par
        if (value < 0 || value > 1) \{\par
            printf("Invalid binary digit: %c\\n", digit);\par
            return -1; \par
        \}\par
\par
        decimal += value * pow(2, length - i - 1);\par
    \}\par
\par
    return decimal;\par
\}\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    const char *binary = "1001010110101.1110101";\par
    int decimalValue = convertBinaryToDecimal(binary);\par
    \par
    if (decimalValue != -1) \{\par
        printf("(%s)2 = (%d)10\\n", binary, decimalValue);\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
Convert from Octal (Base-8) to Decimal:\par
\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int convertOctalToDecimal(const char *octal) \{\par
    int decimal = 0;\par
    int length = strlen(octal);\par
\par
    for (int i = 0; i < length; i++) \{\par
        char digit = octal[i];\par
        int value = digit - '0'; \par
\par
        if (value < 0 || value >= 8) \{\par
            printf("Invalid octal digit: %c\\n", digit);\par
            return -1; \par
        \}\par
\par
        decimal = decimal * 8 + value;\par
    \}\par
\par
    return decimal;\par
\}\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    const char *octal = "742.72";\par
    int decimalValue = convertOctalToDecimal(octal);\par
    \par
    if (decimalValue != -1) \{\par
        printf("(%s)8 = (%d)10\\n", octal, decimalValue);\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
Convert from Hexadecimal (Base-16) to Decimal:\par
#include <stdio.h>\par
#include <string.h>\par
#include <math.h>\par
\par
int convertHexToDecimal(const char *hex) \{\par
    int decimal = 0;\par
    int length = strlen(hex);\par
\par
    for (int i = 0; i < length; i++) \{\par
        char digit = hex[i];\par
        int value;\par
\par
        if (digit >= '0' && digit <= '9') \{\par
            value = digit - '0';\par
        \} else if (digit >= 'A' && digit <= 'F') \{\par
            value = digit - 'A' + 10;\par
        \} else if (digit >= 'a' && digit <= 'f') \{\par
            value = digit - 'a' + 10;\par
        \} else \{\par
            printf("Invalid hexadecimal digit: %c\\n", digit);\par
            return -1; \par
        \}\par
\par
        decimal += value * pow(16, length - i - 1);\par
    \}\par
\par
    return decimal;\par
\}\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    const char *hex = "AC94.C5";\par
    int decimalValue = convertHexToDecimal(hex);\par
    \par
    if (decimalValue != -1) \{\par
        printf("(%s)16 = (%d)10\\n", hex, decimalValue);\par
    \}\par
\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\nosupersub\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj Q50. Perform the following conversion from Hexadecimal to other number as directed-\par

\pard\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj  (DB56.CD4)\sub 16\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 2,\nosupersub    (?)\sub 8\nosupersub ,   (?)\sub 4\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\nosupersub Q51. Perform the following conversion from octal to other number as directed-\par

\pard\li720\sl360\slmult1\qj (473.42)\sub 8\nosupersub  = (?)\sub 2\nosupersub ,   (?)\sub 10,\nosupersub    (?)\sub 16\nosupersub ,   (?)\sub 5\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\nosupersub Q52. Find the value of A?\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sl360\slmult1\qj (23)\sub 10\nosupersub  = (17)\sub A\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}\nosupersub (21)\sub 16\nosupersub  = (41\sub )A\nosupersub\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}(32)\sub 8\nosupersub  = (101)\sub A\nosupersub\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\par
Q53:  What will be the output of following program? Assume integer is of 2 bytes\par
void main()\{\par
int  a=32770;\par
printf(\ldblquote %d\rdblquote ,a);\par
\}\par
\par

\pard\sb100\sa100\sl240\slmult1 Answer: Assigning the value 32770 to an int variable exceeds its range because 32770 is greater than 32,767. This will lead to an overflow.\cf3\fs27 The output of the program will be \b -32766\b0 .\par
The reason for this is that the integer \f6\fs20 a\f1\fs27  is assigned a value of \f6\fs20 32770\f1\fs27 , which is greater than the maximum value that can be stored in a 2-byte integer. The maximum value that can be stored in a 2-byte integer is \f6\fs20 32767\f1\fs27 . When an integer overflows, it wraps around to the minimum value that can be stored in a 2-byte integer, which is \f6\fs20 -32768\f1\fs27 . Therefore, the value of \f6\fs20 a\f1\fs27  becomes \f6\fs20 -32766\f1\fs27  (\f6\fs20 -32768 + 2\f1\fs27 ), and this is what gets printed by the \f6\fs20 printf()\f1\fs27  statement.\par
I hope this helps!\par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\cf0\fs24\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj Q54: #include <stdio.h>\par
 int main()\par
\{\par
 float c = 5.0;\par
 printf ("Temperature in Fahrenheit is %.2f", (9/5)*c + 32);\par
 return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
Answer:       \par
  #include <stdio.h>\par
\par
int main() \{\par
    float c = 5.0;\par
    printf("Temperature in Fahrenheit is %.2f", (9.0/5.0)*c + 32);\par
    return 0;\par
\}\par
\par
       \par

\pard\sl360\slmult1\qj\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\qj\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par

\pard\li720\sl240\slmult1\qj\f0\fs22\par
}
 